README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

# 📗 Table of Contents

- [📖 About the Project](#about-project)
  - [🛠 Built With](#built-with)
    - [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
    - [Key Features](#key-features)
- [💻 Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Run tests](#run-tests)
  - [Deployment](#triangular_flag_on_post-deployment)
- [👥 Authors](#authors)
- [🔭 Future Features](#future-features)
- [🤝 Contributing](#contributing)
- [⭐️ Show your support](#support)
- [🙏 Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [❓ FAQ (OPTIONAL)](#faq)
- [📝 License](#license)

<!-- PROJECT DESCRIPTION -->

# 📖 [Recipe App] <a name="about-project"></a>

**[Recipe App]** The Recipe app keeps track of all your recipes, ingredients, and inventory. It will allow you to save ingredients, keep track of what you have, create recipes, and generate a shopping list based on what you have and what you are missing from a recipe. Also, since sharing recipes is an important part of cooking the app should allow you to make them public so anyone can access them.

## 🛠 Built With <a name="built-with"></a>

### Tech Stack <a name="tech-stack"></a>

<details>
  <summary>Client</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/">Ruby</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Server</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://rubyonrails.org/">Ruby on Rails</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Database</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://www.postgresql.org/">PostgreSQL</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

<!-- Features -->

### Key Features <a name="key-features"></a>

- **[Generate a shopping list based on what you have and what you are missing from a recipe]**
- **[Make recipes public in orther to share them]**

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## 💻 Getting Started <a name="getting-started"></a>

To get a local copy up and running, follow these steps.

### Prerequisites

In order to run this project you need:

- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) installed and running
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) installed
- [RubyonRails](https://rubyonrails.org/) installed

### Setup

Clone this repository to your desired folder:

``` bash
git clone git@github.com:dgcuenca/Recipe-app.git
```
and then move to the folder: 

```bash
cd Recipe-app
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Install

Install dependancies with:

```bash
bundle install
```

### Usage

To run the project, execute the following command:

```bash
rails s
```

### Run tests

To run tests, run the following command:

```sh
rspec spec
```

### Deployment

You can deploy this project using:

[Render] (https://render.com/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- AUTHORS -->

## 👥 Authors <a name="authors"></a>

👤 **Diego Cuenca**

[![portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/my_portfolio-000?style=for-the-badge&logo=ko-fi&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/dgcuenca) [![linkedin](https://img.shields.io/badge/dgcuenca-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://linkedin.com/in/dgcuenca)

 👤 **Belay Birhanu G.**

- GitHub: [@githubhandle](https://github.com/belaymit)
- Twitter: [@twitterhandle](https://twitter.com/2belamit)
- LinkedIn: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/belay-birhanu-144ba714b/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- FUTURE FEATURES -->

## 🔭 Future Features <a name="future-features"></a>

- [ ] **[Optimized Database]**
- [ ] **[Better UI Experience]**


<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## 🤝 Contributing <a name="contributing"></a>

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/dgcuenca/Recipe-app/issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- SUPPORT -->

## ⭐️ Show your support <a name="support"></a>

Give us a ⭐️ if you like this project!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->

## 🙏 Acknowledgments <a name="acknowledgements"></a>

- [Microverse Team and classmates](https://www.microverse.org/).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- FAQ (optional) -->

## ❓ FAQ <a name="faq"></a>

- **Can I use this project for personal use?**
  - Sure, if you want to talk about something specific, feel free to send me a direct message. <br><br>
 
- **Is there an Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) that represents this project?**

  - Yes! 
  <div align="left">
    <img src="./ERD-recipe-app.png" alt="ERD diagram" width="540"  height="auto" />
  </div>

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## 📝 License <a name="license"></a>

This project is [MIT](./LICENSE) licensed.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

Commit message:

Added learning objectives to README file

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

# 📗 Table of Contents

- [📖 About the Project](#about-project)
  - [🛠 Built With](#built-with)
    - [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
    - [Key Features](#key-features)
- [💻 Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Setup](#setup)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Install](#install)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Run tests](#run-tests)
  - [Deployment](#triangular_flag_on_post-deployment)
- [👥 Authors](#authors)
- [🔭 Future Features](#future-features)
- [🤝 Contributing](#contributing)
- [⭐️ Show your support](#support)
- [🙏 Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
- [❓ FAQ (OPTIONAL)](#faq)
- [📝 License](#license)

<!-- PROJECT DESCRIPTION -->

# 📖 [Recipe App] <a name="about-project"></a>

**[Recipe App]** The Recipe app keeps track of all your recipes, ingredients, and inventory. It will allow you to save ingredients, keep track of what you have, create recipes, and generate a shopping list based on what you have and what you are missing from a recipe. Also, since sharing recipes is an important part of cooking the app should allow you to make them public so anyone can access them.

## 🛠 Built With <a name="built-with"></a>

### Tech Stack <a name="tech-stack"></a>

<details>
  <summary>Client</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/">Ruby</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Server</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://rubyonrails.org/">Ruby on Rails</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Database</summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://www.postgresql.org/">PostgreSQL</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

### Learning Objectives
>- Use Ruby gems as a software packages system.
>- Install Ruby on Rails framework.
>- Understand Rails RESTful design and router.
>- Use controllers to handle requests and render empty views.
>- Understand Rails naming conventions.
>- Use params from browser requests in a safe way.
>- Use preprocessed HTML file with embedded Ruby code.
>- Use layouts and templates for shared content.
>- Use database migration files to maintain database schema.
>- Use validations for models.
>- Secure app from n+1 problems.
>- Understand what ORM is.
>- Write SQL queries with ActiveRecord.
>- Set up associations between models.
>- Build a web app that requires the user to log in.
>- Describe the difference between authorization and authentication.
>- Use Devise gem for authentication.
>- Understand how sessions and cookies can support authentication.
>- Limit access to web app resources based on authorization rules.
>- Write unit tests using Rspec
>- Write integration tests with capybara gem
<!-- Features -->

### Key Features <a name="key-features"></a>

- **[Generate a shopping list based on what you have and what you are missing from a recipe]**
- **[Make recipes public in orther to share them]**

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## 💻 Getting Started <a name="getting-started"></a>

To get a local copy up and running, follow these steps.

### Prerequisites

In order to run this project you need:

- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) installed and running
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) installed
- [RubyonRails](https://rubyonrails.org/) installed

### Setup

Clone this repository to your desired folder:

``` bash
git clone git@github.com:dgcuenca/Recipe-app.git
```
and then move to the folder: 

```bash
cd Recipe-app
```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Install

Install dependancies with:

```bash
bundle install
```

### Usage

To run the project, execute the following command:

```bash
rails s
```

### Run tests

To run tests, run the following command:

```sh
rspec ./spec/models/ // to test models
rspec .spec/views/  // integration test
```

### Deployment

You can deploy this project using:

[Render] (https://render.com/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- AUTHORS -->

## 👥 Authors <a name="authors"></a>

👤 **Diego Cuenca**

[![portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/my_portfolio-000?style=for-the-badge&logo=ko-fi&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/dgcuenca) [![linkedin](https://img.shields.io/badge/dgcuenca-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://linkedin.com/in/dgcuenca)

 👤 **Belay Birhanu G.**

- GitHub: [@githubhandle](https://github.com/belaymit)
- Twitter: [@twitterhandle](https://twitter.com/2belamit)
- LinkedIn: [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/belay-birhanu-144ba714b/)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- FUTURE FEATURES -->

## 🔭 Future Features <a name="future-features"></a>

- [ ] **[Optimized Database]**
- [ ] **[Better UI Experience]**


<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## 🤝 Contributing <a name="contributing"></a>

Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome!

Feel free to check the [issues page](https://github.com/dgcuenca/Recipe-app/issues).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- SUPPORT -->

## ⭐️ Show your support <a name="support"></a>

Give us a ⭐️ if you like this project!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->

## 🙏 Acknowledgments <a name="acknowledgements"></a>

- [Microverse Team and classmates](https://www.microverse.org/).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- FAQ (optional) -->

## ❓ FAQ <a name="faq"></a>

- **Can I use this project for personal use?**
  - Sure, if you want to talk about something specific, feel free to send me a direct message. <br><br>
 
- **Is there an Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) that represents this project?**

  - Yes! 
  <div align="left">
    <img src="./ERD-recipe-app.png" alt="ERD diagram" width="540"  height="auto" />
  </div>

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## 📝 License <a name="license"></a>

This project is [MIT](./LICENSE) licensed.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>
